Signature Work Portfolio

Projects:
1.Boston Housing Deeplearning Project- https://github.com/past6301/BostonHousing
2.Iris Dataset Deeplearning Projecy- https://github.com/past6301/IrisDataset
3.Dynamic Web Server- https://github.com/joseph-scho7642/Dynamic-Web-Server

Overview:
My name is Matthew Pastrana, and I am currently as Senior at the University of St. Thomas. For my signature work portfolio, I choose three projects that I found to be challenging and interesting from my time at the University of St. Thomas. The first two projects are from my Deep Learning class that I took in the spring of 2022. I choose these two projects because they challenged my while I was doing them as assignments, and I found them to be quite fascinating. Deep Learning was one of my favorite classes I took during my time at the University of St. Thomas. I enjoyed the class so much in fact I am considering pursuing a master’s certificate in Artificial Intelligence. Through these two projects I discovered that I find this area of computer science to be extremely interesting and exciting. The individual repositories for each of the two projects are linked above with a more in-depth analysis of these projects respectively. The third project I choose was a dynamic web server project from my web development class I took in the fall of 2022. I choose this project because it is one of projects, I am most proud of during my time at the university of St. Thomas. I am proud of this project because it allowed me to show myself how far I have come from my first computer science project as a freshman. I also choose this project because I feel it is a project that represents St. Thomas’s for the common good mission. As a part of the requirements of this project we had to choose a dataset that had a sustainability aspect to it. Our dataset contained information that shows how people view the weather. Apart of this dataset was a poll of whether people thought they would switch to checking the weather on a smart watch. This dataset was created before smart watches really took off and was used to determine usefulness of smartwatches and whether they were viable. In our presentation of our website, we connected this to sustainability because since this dataset was published over 82.6 million smartwatches have been produced and sold. Since they started production e-waste has gone up 21% a year (this is not all due to smartwatches, but they are a part of it especially the chargers that are produced for them). This year alone we are expected to generate 50 million tons of electronic waste. This sustainability aspect was a big reason I choose to include this project in my signature work portfolio. I also thought this was a good project to address from a domain-specific point of view. This was a project that could be useful to anyone because I think we did a good job at displaying the data in a simple and effective way. This site could be used by people who want to view this dataset but don’t have the technical capabilities to build a way to see it.
